resources.md, before:

# Primary resources

- [The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/)

## Bookmarks
1. [Block and Inline](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-block-and-inline) The Odin Project
2. [Learn CSS Layout](https://learnlayout.com/no-layout.html)

3. [display - CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display) MDN

4. [Introduction to Flexbox](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-introduction-to-flexbox#knowledge-check) The Odin Project

5. [Learn Flexbox CSS in 8 minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phWxA89Dy94) Slaying The Dragon

## Articles
1. [History of CSS Grid and CSS Flexbox](https://medium.com/@BennyOgidan/history-of-css-grid-and-css-flexbox-658ae6cfe6d2) Benny Ogidan  -- Medium
<!-- 2. [Boot Up 2017 with the #100DaysOfCode Challenge](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/start-2017-with-the-100daysofcode-improved-and-updated-18ce604b237b) freeCodeCamp Medium 
3. [Resistance, Habit Change and the #100DaysOfCode Movement](https://studywebdevelopment.com/100-days-of-code.html) StudyWebDevelopment Blog -->

<!-- ### Podcasts -->

<!-- # Additional Resources on the #100DaysOfCode

## Helpful Articles
1. [Gentle Explanation of 'this keyword in JavaScript](http://rainsoft.io/gentle-explanation-of-this-in-javascript/)
2. [Build a Laravel CRUD Application from scratch](https://www.codewall.co.uk/laravel-crud-demo-with-resource-controller-tutorial/)

## Projects and Ideas
1. [FreeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.com)
2. [The Odin Project](http://www.theodinproject.com/)

## Other resources
1. [CodeNewbie - #100DaysOfCode Slack Channel](https://codenewbie.typeform.com/to/uwsWlZ)

## Books (both coding and non-coding)

### Non-Coding
1. ["The War of Art" by Steven Pressfield](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1319.The_War_of_Art)
2. ["The Obstacle is the Way" by Ryan Holiday](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18668059-the-obstacle-is-the-way?ac=1&from_search=true)
3. ["Ego is the Enemy" by Ryan Holiday](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27036528-ego-is-the-enemy?from_search=true&search_version=service)
4. ["Meditations" by Marcus Aurelius](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662925.Meditations)

### Coding
1. "Professional Node.js" by Teixeira
2. ["Eloquent Javascript" by Marijn Haverbeke](http://eloquentjavascript.net/) - available online (free) & as a paperback
3. "Mastering JavaScript" by Ved Antani

## Contents
* [Rules](rules.md)
* [Log - click here to see my progress](log.md)
* [FAQ](FAQ.md)
* [Resources](resources.md) -->

Commit message:

update: resources as sections and with more links

resources.md, after:

# Primary resources

- [The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/)

## Bookmarks
### Inderstanding the Web
1. [Introductory HTTP](https://launchschool.com/books/http/read/introduction) LaunchSchool

### Git / GitHub
> The first three resources are really good for getting your Git game up
1. [Setting up Git](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-setting-up-git) The Odin Project

2. [Introduction to Git](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-introduction-to-git) The Odin Project

3. [Git Basics](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-git-basics) The Odin Project

4. [What is Git? Explained in 2 Minutes!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ReR1YJrNOM) Programming with Mosh

5. [Testing your SSH connection](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/testing-your-ssh-connection?platform=linux) GitHub Docs

6. [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/) cbeams

### Box Model
1. [Block and Inline](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-block-and-inline) The Odin Project

2. [Learn CSS Layout](https://learnlayout.com/no-layout.html)

3. [display - CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display) MDN


### CSS Layouts
1. [Introduction to Flexbox](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-introduction-to-flexbox#knowledge-check) The Odin Project

2. [Learn Flexbox CSS in 8 minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phWxA89Dy94) Slaying The Dragon

3. [Flexbox](https://internetingishard.netlify.app/html-and-css/flexbox/#setup) Interneting is hard

## Articles
1. [History of CSS Grid and CSS Flexbox](https://medium.com/@BennyOgidan/history-of-css-grid-and-css-flexbox-658ae6cfe6d2) Benny Ogidan - Medium
<!-- 2. [Boot Up 2017 with the #100DaysOfCode Challenge](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/start-2017-with-the-100daysofcode-improved-and-updated-18ce604b237b) freeCodeCamp Medium 
3. [Resistance, Habit Change and the #100DaysOfCode Movement](https://studywebdevelopment.com/100-days-of-code.html) StudyWebDevelopment Blog -->

<!-- ### Podcasts -->

<!-- ## Helpful Articles
1. [Gentle Explanation of 'this keyword in JavaScript](http://rainsoft.io/gentle-explanation-of-this-in-javascript/)
2. [Build a Laravel CRUD Application from scratch](https://www.codewall.co.uk/laravel-crud-demo-with-resource-controller-tutorial/)

## Projects and Ideas
1. [FreeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.com)
2. [The Odin Project](http://www.theodinproject.com/)

## Other resources
1. [CodeNewbie - #100DaysOfCode Slack Channel](https://codenewbie.typeform.com/to/uwsWlZ)

## Books (both coding and non-coding)

### Non-Coding
1. ["The War of Art" by Steven Pressfield](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1319.The_War_of_Art)
2. ["The Obstacle is the Way" by Ryan Holiday](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18668059-the-obstacle-is-the-way?ac=1&from_search=true)
3. ["Ego is the Enemy" by Ryan Holiday](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27036528-ego-is-the-enemy?from_search=true&search_version=service)
4. ["Meditations" by Marcus Aurelius](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662925.Meditations)

### Coding
1. "Professional Node.js" by Teixeira
2. ["Eloquent Javascript" by Marijn Haverbeke](http://eloquentjavascript.net/) - available online (free) & as a paperback
3. "Mastering JavaScript" by Ved Antani

## Contents
* [Rules](rules.md)
* [Log - click here to see my progress](log.md)
* [FAQ](FAQ.md)
* [Resources](resources.md) -->
